---
layout: page
title: Teaching Philosophy
---

As a Computer Science (CS) educator, my goal is to facilitate student learning by creating an engaging and supportive classroom environment. I believe that CS education at its core is not just about acquiring computing knowledge, but about equipping students with a new method of perceiving and solving problems, often referred to as ``computational thinking.'' To achieve this, I embrace an andragogical approach, recognizing that adult learners have unique needs and motivations that should inform my teaching methods; that is, I focus on adults’ desire to have their learning grounded in real-world application and their move towards self-directed learning as their intrinsic motivation develops. I also utilize a variety of novel instructional techniques rooted in contemporary teaching theory.

<hr color="white"/>

The first of andragogy’s assumptions that I focus on in my teaching is that adult learners learn best when the content their learning is connected to applications in their career. To engage my students, I focus on creating authentic programming tasks that simulate real-world scenarios. I believe that students are more motivated to learn when they can see the relevance and practical applications of what they are studying. For this reason, I prioritize multi-week, scaffolded programming projects as the primary form of summative assessment. These projects allow students to develop their programming skills incrementally, building on their prior progress and knowledge as each week passes. By the end of the term, students have a sense of accomplishment and confidence in their ability to apply what they've learned to large, authentic problems.

In addition to these long-term summative assessments, I try to ground low-stakes, formative assessments in authentic performance tasks as well. For example, my "From UML to Code" (see my [Teaching Portfolio](../assets/pdf/teaching-portfolio.pdf)) activity tasks students with writing some code based off of a Unified Modeling Language (UML) class diagram. Since most CS majors will be seeking out careers in software engineering, I choose to give students a UML diagram that represents a possible project management system. The code students write for this assignment is very close to the actual code that would need to be written in a production setting. My students respond well to this, as many have reported that they prefer this theming of assignments over some more typical themings, especially over assignments that focus on solving problems from mathematics with computing.

I also recognize the andragogic principle that adults desire autonomy in their education, that one size does not fit all. To provide students with a more personalized learning experience, I offer multiple options for large programming assignments. This allows students to choose the path that best suits their interests and career goals while still practicing the same computational thinking skills. For example, when giving students a formative assessment covering arrays, I provide them with three possible tasks to choose from: students can write a program which simulates heat diffusion across a wire (engineering theme), a virtual board game where the board is represented with an array (game theme), or a program which keeps a record of transaction amounts (business theme). While the actual requirements of these formative assessments differ slightly, they still require students to demonstrate their knowledge of arrays. By providing these options, my students have more ownership over their learning process, which I've seen results in more of my students getting genuinely invested and excited about the problems they are solving.

In my research, I’ve seen students stumble through the complex language of CS, struggling with both new vocabulary and familiar words with CS-specific contexts and connotations. To ensure that students feel comfortable with the discipline-specific language of computer science, I introduce new terms in a way that builds on their existing conceptualization of computing concepts. Over the course of the term, I build up a visual ontology of CS-specific terms to help students understand how new concepts relate to familiar ones, gradually expanding their vocabulary and conceptual schema. I believe that this approach minimizes the extraneous cognitive load that can come with learning new terminology and frees up working memory for students to process complex ideas. In my time as a TA, I saw many students confused when presented with words like function, method, and procedure. When I drew a visual which explicitly showed the differences and similarities between these words to my students, much of their confusion was cleared.

In my in-person classes, I prioritize active learning strategies that encourage students to frequently engage with the material in meaningful ways, rather than just sitting through a lecture. While research supports segments of less than 15 minutes, I "chunk" lecture segments into a larger number of roughly three-to-five-minute sections, followed by short individual or group activities that allow students to apply and further explore what they've just learned. For online courses, I limit these lecture sections to three-minutes or less, as my students are more accustomed to consuming short-form media than longer forms of media. This allows for them to quickly absorb the information they need to get started on a task while also being able to easily find and re-watch videos without needing to search through a longer video. An example of one such assignment can be found in my [Teaching Portfolio](../assets/pdf/teaching-portfolio.pdf). Additionally, I engage in back-and-forth, conversational dialogue with my students during the in-person lecture segments so that my students stay actively engaged throughout. This approach creates a more dynamic and interactive classroom environment, where students are asked to stay actively engaged with the material and with one another. While many of my students are initially resistant to this deviation from normal lecture sessions, they grow accustomed to the more active sessions, engaging with their peers without any hair-pulling on my part.

Lastly, I understand the importance of making mistakes in formative assessments in the learning process. To ensure that my students are continually learning and growing, I apply mastery-based grading by providing them with opportunities to revise and resubmit their work. By allowing them to receive feedback and improve upon their work, I facilitate an environment that encourages a growth mindset which supports their growing intrinsic motivation for learning. This approach also helps to reduce the emphasis on grades and encourages students to focus on their progress and learning journey. As with my short-form lecture style, students are initially resistant to this deviation from the standard grading scheme that they have learned how work around. However, by the end, my students report that this grading philosophy lowered their overall stress around their grade and incentivised them write better programs than they otherwise would have.

<hr color="white"/>

Ultimately, my teaching philosophy is centered on creating an interactive and personalized learning environment where my students can thrive in spite of mistakes. I believe that by embracing an andragogical approach, paying careful attention to the language I frame concepts with, and by using active learning strategies, I can help students develop the computational thinking skills and computing knowledge they need to succeed in our discipline.